I think I'd really like for healthcare providers to know that every interaction
they have with people who use substances will influence whether they
feel safe seeking care in the future. And that's something that I see
a lot in my work is that people will be reluctant to
seek care for really basic things, because they've been treated poorly in
the past. Yeah, so we offer quite a few different programs and services.
Most important for the clients, that I work with, would be
the intensive case management team. We have an OAT clinic as well,
so for folks that are looking to get on methadone, Suboxone,
KD, and that kind of thing. We've got a psychiatry service that we
refer to as well, and we also work closely with the local shelters,
really just ensuring that people's basic needs are met and that if they're
looking for extra support with their mental and physical health, then we
can offer those things. You know provide a first point of contact for
folks when they're looking for support and help direct them in whatever
direction they're looking to go. So whether that is
basic needs like food and shelter, whether it is mental health support,
we just we meet them where they are.
I think the people that are using services and accessing the services that
we offer are just members of the community. So you know substance use
is something that exists across the population. One of the struggles that
we have is there has been a huge influx of people,
a huge influx of wealth, and there's been a lot of loss of
space for people and a lot of loss of affordable housing.
It's hard for me to kind of say who the people are because
it really is everybody. I mean, I would really love to see
healthcare workers working in community settings, working in the hospital,
have access to the information that we have access to and know that
we're here to help. And I think that sometimes we, because we're in
different buildings and with COVID, and sometimes we forget that one another
is... That we're out there. So I would just say
if folks are working with patients that they
maybe have questions about or they're not sure, or they're even just looking
for some guidance, if they're working with someone that's using substances
like please, please reach out. I'm always happy to drive up to the
hospital or just chat on the phone. When I'm having conversations with other
service providers, I try to really remind them that
these are just people and that so many of the people we work
with also have such complex trauma histories, and
when they come in asking for our help, that's already taking a tremendous
amount of courage from them. So I think the very least that we
can do is treat them with dignity and kindness like we would anyone
else.